docs: document Crossplane PAD-82 (#2713)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/automation/automation.md

---
sidebar_label: "Automation"
title: "Automation"
description: "Learn how to use automation tools with Palette and Palette VerteX."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_custom_props:
  icon: "terminal"
tags: ["automation"]
---

This section contains documentation and guides essential for automating tasks with Palette. These resources cover the

> Palette CLI, Terraform provider, and Crossplane provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette CLI, Palette Terraform provider, and Palette Crossplane provider.
```
I think we need to prefix with Palette, otherwise it's not clear what provider for Crossplane and Terraform we are referring to.

Author: :white_check_mark:

> The Palette CLI has multiple functionalities that allow users to interact with Palette and create and manage resources
> such as private cloud gateways. You can leverage the Palette CLI in Continuous Delivery/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)
> pipelines and other automation tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Palette CLI](./palette-cli/install-palette-cli.md) has multiple functionalities that allow users to interact with Palette and create and manage resources, such as projects, virtual clusters, and more. The Palette CLI is the primary method for installing a self-hosted Palette instance and deploying a Private Cloud Gateway. You can leverage the Palette CLI in Continuous Delivery/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipelines and other automation tasks.
```
Just a minor touch-up on what the Palette CLI can do.

Author: :white_check_mark:

> Palette also supports Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tools that provide comprehensive automation for deploying and
> managing Palette resources. These resources include cluster profiles, cloud accounts, clusters, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette also supports Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tools and workflows.  We expose two providers to help you start managing Palette resources through automation. You can use our [Palette Terraform provider](./terraform/terraform.md) or our [Palette Crossplane provider](./crossplane/crossplane.md) to get started with IaC workflows today. Use either provider to manage Palette resources such as cluster profiles, cloud accounts, clusters, and more.
```

Take a peek and see if you like this intro.

Author: :white_check_mark:
